it is genuinely true that if you measure
the total variation in the human species
and then partition it into a between
race component and a within race
component the between race component is
a small fraction of the total most of
the variation among humans can be found
within races as well as between them
only a small admixture of extra
variation distinguishes races from each
other that is all correct what is not
correct is the inference that race is
therefore a meaningless concept this
point has been clearly made by the
distinguished Cambridge geneticist awf
Edwards in a recent paper called human
genetic diversity Lewin tins fallacy RC
Luton is an equally distinguished
Cambridge Massachusetts geneticist known
for the strength of his political
convictions and his weakness for
dragging them into science at every
possible opportunity loo Anton's view of
race has become near universal orthodoxy
in scientific circles he wrote in a
famous paper of 1972 it is clear that
our perception of relatively large
differences between human races and
subgroups as compared to the variation
within these groups is indeed a biased
perception and that based on randomly
chosen genetic differences human races
and populations are remarkably similar
to each other with the largest part by
far of human variation being accounted
for by the differences between
individuals this is of course exactly
the point I accepted above not
surprisingly since what I wrote was
largely based on luetin but see how
learning goes on human racial
classification is of no social value and
is positively destructive of social and
human relations since such racial
classification is now seen to be a
virtually no genetic or taxonomic
significance either no justification can
be offered for its continuance we can
all happily agree that human racial
classification is of no social value and
is positively destructive of social and
human relations that is one reason why I
object to ticking boxes in forms and why
I object to positive discrimination in
job selection
that doesn't mean that races of
virtually no genetic or taxonomic
significance
this is Edwards's point and he reasons
as follows however small the racial
partition of the total variation may be
if such racial characteristics are there
are are highly correlated with other
racial characteristics they are by
definition informative and therefore of
taxonomic significance
you